[FIX] Clarify data types and requirement levels for all JSON files (#605)
bids-standard/bids-specification: src/04-modality-specific-files/01-magnetic-resonance-imaging-data.md

## Common metadata fields

> MR Data described in the [Magnetic Resonance Imaging](./01-magnetic-resonance-imaging-data.md#magnetic-resonance-imaging)
> section (this section) share the following RECOMMENDED metadata

Reviewer: I don't see the value in self-linking.

```suggestion
MR Data described in the following sections share the following RECOMMENDED metadata
```

| Manufacturer                  | RECOMMENDED           | [string][]    | Manufacturer of the equipment that produced the composite instances. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0008, 0070 `Manufacturer`                                                                                                                                                   |
| ManufacturersModelName        | RECOMMENDED           | [string][]    | Manufacturer's model name of the equipment that produced the composite instances. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0008, 1090 `Manufacturers Model Name`                                                                                                                          |
| DeviceSerialNumber            | RECOMMENDED           | [string][]    | The serial number of the equipment that produced the composite instances. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 1000 `DeviceSerialNumber`. A pseudonym can also be used to prevent the equipment from being identifiable, so long as each pseudonym is unique within the dataset |

> | StationName                   | RECOMMENDED           |               | Institution defined name of the machine that produced the composite instances. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0008, 1010 `Station Name`                                                                                                                                         |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: Every instance I can quickly find in OpenNeuro is a string, which matches my intuition.

| SoftwareVersions              | RECOMMENDED           | [string][]    | Manufacturer's designation of software version of the equipment that produced the composite instances. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 1020 `Software Versions`                                                                                                            |
| HardcopyDeviceSoftwareVersion | [DEPRECATED][]        | [string][]    | Manufacturer's designation of the software of the device that created this Hardcopy Image (the printer). Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 101A `Hardcopy Device Software Version`                                                                                           |

> | MagneticFieldStrength         | RECOMMENDED           |               | Nominal field strength of MR magnet in Tesla. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018,0087 `Magnetic Field Strength`                                                                                                                                                                |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: Number. In OpenNeuro, it's mostly numbers, though there are a couple strings like `"3T"` and `" "`. I would call those invalid, though.

Author: yarik seems to agree: https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-validator/issues/851

> | ReceiveCoilName               | RECOMMENDED           |               | Information describing the receiver coil. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 1250 `Receive Coil Name`, although not all vendors populate that DICOM Tag, in which case this field can be derived from an appropriate private DICOM field                                      |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: All strings in OpenNeuro. I concur.

> | ReceiveCoilActiveElements     | RECOMMENDED           |               | Information describing the active/selected elements of the receiver coil. This doesn't correspond to a tag in the DICOM ontology. The vendor-defined terminology for active coil elements can go in this field. See an example below the table.                           |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: All strings in OpenNeuro. I concur.

> | GradientSetType               | RECOMMENDED           |               | It should be possible to infer the gradient coil from the scanner model. If not, e.g. because of a custom upgrade or use of a gradient insert set, then the specifications of the actual gradient coil should be reported independently                                   |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: This is unused, except strings containing a space (`" "`). It reads like a string, though.

> | MRTransmitCoilSequence        | RECOMMENDED           |               | This is a relevant field if a non-standard transmit coil is used. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 9049 `MR Transmit Coil Sequence`                                                                                                                                         |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: This is unused, except one case of a string containing a space (`" "`). It reads like a string, though.

> | MatrixCoilMode                | RECOMMENDED           |               | (If used) A method for reducing the number of independent channels by combining in analog the signals from multiple coil elements. There are typically different default modes when using un-accelerated or accelerated (e.g. GRAPPA, SENSE) imaging                      |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: This is unused, except strings containing a space (`" "`). It reads like a string, though.

so that it can be used as a mechanism for checking that a given scan was collected with the intended coil elements selected

#### Sequence Specifics

| **Key name**                | **Requirement level** | **Data type** | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| --------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| PulseSequenceType           | RECOMMENDED           | [string][]    | A general description of the pulse sequence used for the scan (i.e. MPRAGE, Gradient Echo EPI, Spin Echo EPI, Multiband gradient echo EPI).                                                                                                                       |

> | ScanningSequence            | RECOMMENDED           |               | Description of the type of data acquired. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 0020 `Scanning Sequence`.                                                                                                                                                                |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: In practice, string or array of strings. Both are quite prevalent.

> | SequenceVariant             | RECOMMENDED           |               | Variant of the ScanningSequence. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 0021 `Sequence Variant`.                                                                                                                                                                          |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: In practice, string or array of strings. Both are quite prevalent.

> | ScanOptions                 | RECOMMENDED           |               | Parameters of ScanningSequence. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 0022 `Scan Options`.                                                                                                                                                                               |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: In practice, string or array of strings. Both are quite prevalent.

> | SequenceName                | RECOMMENDED           |               | Manufacturer's designation of the sequence name. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 0024 `Sequence Name`.                                                                                                                                                             |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: All strings in OpenNeuro. I concur.

| ParallelReductionFactorInPlane | RECOMMENDED           | [number][]    | The parallel imaging (e.g, GRAPPA) factor. Use the denominator of the fraction of k-space encoded for each slice. For example, 2 means half of k-space is encoded. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 9069 `Parallel Reduction Factor In-plane`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

> | ParallelAcquisitionTechnique   | RECOMMENDED           |               | The type of parallel imaging used (e.g. GRAPPA, SENSE). Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 9078 `Parallel Acquisition Technique`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: String.

> | PartialFourier                 | RECOMMENDED           |               | The fraction of partial Fourier information collected. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 9081 `Partial Fourier`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: Number.

> | PartialFourierDirection        | RECOMMENDED           |               | The direction where only partial Fourier information was collected. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 9036 `Partial Fourier Direction`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: This is unused, except strings containing a space (`" "`). It reads like a string, though.

| TotalReadoutTime               | RECOMMENDED           | [number][]    | This is actually the "effective" total readout time , defined as the readout duration, specified in seconds, that would have generated data with the given level of distortion. It is NOT the actual, physical duration of the readout train. If `EffectiveEchoSpacing` has been properly computed, it is just `EffectiveEchoSpacing * (ReconMatrixPE - 1)`.<sup>3</sup> . This parameter is REQUIRED if corresponding "field/distortion" maps acquired with opposing phase encoding directions are present (see 8.9.4).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

> <sup>2</sup>Conveniently, for Siemens' data, this value is easily obtained as

Reviewer: I disagree with the possessive here.

```suggestion
<sup>2</sup>Conveniently, for Siemens data, this value is easily obtained as
```

| InversionTime          | RECOMMENDED                                                                                                      | [number][]               | The inversion time (TI) for the acquisition, specified in seconds. Inversion time is the time after the middle of inverting RF pulse to middle of excitation pulse to detect the amount of longitudinal magnetization. Corresponds to DICOM Tag 0018, 0082 `Inversion Time` (please note that the DICOM term is in milliseconds not seconds).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

> | SliceTiming            | RECOMMENDED, but REQUIRED for sparse sequences that do not have the `DelayTime` field set                        | [array][] of [numbers][] | The time at which each slice was acquired within each volume (frame) of the acquisition. Slice timing is not slice order -- rather, it is a list of times containing the time (in seconds) of each slice acquisition in relation to the beginning of volume acquisition. The list goes through the slices along the slice axis in the slice encoding dimension (see below). Note that to ensure the proper interpretation of the `SliceTiming` field, it is important to check if the OPTIONAL `SliceEncodingDirection` exists. In particular, if `SliceEncodingDirection` is negative, the entries in `SliceTiming` are defined in reverse order with respect to the slice axis (i.e., the final entry in the `SliceTiming` list is the time of acquisition of slice 0). Without this parameter slice time correction will not be possible. |

Reviewer: i think it might make the most sense to keep the requirement level brief, e.g. `RECOMMENDED/REQUIRED`, and add the `REQUIRED for sparse sequences that do not have the DelayTime field set` to the end of the description.

#### RF & Contrast

| **Key name**                | **Requirement level** | **Data type** | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| --------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| FlipAngle                   | RECOMMENDED           | [number][]    | Flip angle for the acquisition, specified in degrees. Corresponds to: DICOM Tag 0018, 1314 `Flip Angle`.                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

> | MultibandAccelerationFactor | RECOMMENDED           |               | The multiband factor, for multiband acquisitions.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

Author: what datatype is this?

Reviewer: Number.

| NegativeContrast            | OPTIONAL              | [boolean][]   | `true` or `false` value specifying whether increasing voxel intensity (within sample voxels) denotes a decreased value with respect to the contrast suffix. This is commonly the case when Cerebral Blood Volume is estimated via usage of a contrast agent in conjunction with a T2\* weighted acquisition protocol. |

#### Slice Acceleration

| **Key name**                | **Requirement level** | **Data type** | **Description**                                   |
| --------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |

> | MultibandAccelerationFactor | RECOMMENDED           |               | The multiband factor, for multiband acquisitions. |

Reviewer: Duplicate of previous table. Probably want to remove it from the previous and keep it here, going by the headers.

| VolumeTiming   | REQUIRED              | [array][] of [numbers][] | The time at which each volume was acquired during the acquisition. It is described using a list of times referring to the onset of each volume in the BOLD series. The list must have the same length as the BOLD series, and the values must be non-negative and monotonically increasing. This field is mutually exclusive with `RepetitionTime` and `DelayTime`. If defined, this requires acquisition time (TA) be defined via either `SliceTiming` or `AcquisitionDuration` be defined.                                                         |

> | TaskName       | REQUIRED              | [string][]               | Name of the task. No two tasks should have the same name. The task label included in the file name is derived from this TaskName field by removing all non-alphanumeric (`[a-zA-Z0-9]`) characters. For example TaskName `faces n-back` will correspond to task label `facesnback`. A RECOMMENDED convention is to name resting state task using labels beginning with `rest`.                                                                                                                                                                       |

Reviewer: This should be synced with EEG/MEG/iEEG. I think this is clearer text than those, so I would copy from here.

Author: Agreed. The iEEG spec had an additional sentence:

> Note this does not have to be a "behavioral task" that subjects perform, but can reflect some information about the conditions present when the data was acquired (e.g., "rest", "sleep", or "seizure").

I pulled this out of the table and put it right below as a note.

latter case all timepoints share the same scanning parameters. To indicate which
run is intended to be used with which functional or diffusion scan the
IntendedFor field in the JSON file should be used.

<!-- Link Definitions -->

> [deprecated]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deprecation

Reviewer: For a separate PR: Might be good to have a note on deprecation in the spec itself. Something like:

> DEPRECATED - A "deprecated" entity or metadata field SHOULD NOT be used in the generation of new datasets. It remains in the standard in order to preserve the interpretability of existing datasets. Validating software SHOULD warn when deprecated practices are detected and provide a suggestion for updating the dataset to preserve the curator's intent.
